 <!-- Needs something more about what this MEANS... -->
The _ideal adapter_ is a computational-level theory of human speech
perception.

Even for a single talker, speech is highly variable: linguistic units (phonetic
categories, words, etc.) are _distributions_ of acoustic cues.  This means that
speech perception is a problem of inference under uncertainty.  When the
listener knows the distribution of cues that corresponds to each (phonetic)
category, they can work backwards from a particular observed cue value to
_infer_ which category was most likely.  As distributional learning theories of
language acquisition have long acknowledged, these distributions must be
_learned_ during acquisition.

The ideal adapter, however, goes beyond these theories by placing distributional
learning front and center in adult language processing.  This is because speech
is variable not only _within_ a talker but also _between_ talkers.  Thus, the
cue distribution for each phonetic category (or other linguistic unit) changes
from one situation to the next, and an "ideal adapter" needs to continuously
update their beliefs about these cue distributions via distributional learning.
This is the first insight of the ideal adapter: because of talker variability,
distributional learning should not stop after acquisition, but continue
throughout life.  Indeed, listeners rapidly adapt to unfamiliar talkers, and
they do so in way that is quantitatively well predicted by a simple belief
updating model based on the principles of the ideal adapter.

The second insight of the ideal adapter is that this distributional learning is
_hierarchical_.  One of the main differences between distributional learning in
acquisition and in adult language processing is that adults have substantial
prior experience with _other_ talkers.  This experience is useful to an ideal
adapter because it makes some accents (sets of cue distributions) more likely
than others, which provides an informative starting point for distributional
learning.  However, for this experience to be useful, a listener needs to be
able to generalize from particular prior experiences.  That is, an ideal adapter
will learn the _distribution_ of talkers' accents (sets of cue distributions).
Such hierarchical distributional learning is how the ideal adapter balances
stability and plasticity.
